How's it going everybody?
Welcome to Intro to Node.js V3.
I'm your instructor, Scott Moss,
I am a software engineer.
Well, I guess technically I'm an investor
now, I don't write code full time.
But I was a software engineer for
over 15 years now.
Where I've worked at various
companies like Netflix and
doing consulting with other companies.
At this point coding is more than just
something I do for work cuz I don't do
the work, I do for fun,
it's it's something that I enjoy doing.
I dream in code, I build things, I'm
constantly staying up to date with stuff.
And Node.js is just one of those
technologies that when I started
learning to code it was brand new, so
it was the thing that I picked up.
It's my native language, I guess.
[LAUGH] So
I'm very much in love with Node.js.
And recently there've been a lot of
changes in Node.js with the newest
version.
So this course is gonna go over
a lot of those changes and
my new approaches on how
I do things in Node.js.
I think some of the things have
evolved since last time I taught this.
The fact that you can't even do frontend
without touching Node.js is kind of crazy
now, maybe in a good way.
But pretty much everything that we're
gonna be covering is gonna be in
the notes here.
Although if you've ever taken any of my
courses you know my style is just to hop
right in and do things.
So it'll be more of a reference and
a tool for
you all to use as you're taking
the course, after the course, later on.
But for me, I'll just be referencing it.
But most likely I'll just want to get
in the text editor and do things and
show examples that way versus
just talking through some notes.
So it's a resource for you all,
take advantage of it if you need to.
But you can also just follow along,
ask questions, and
have a conversation as we make things.
What is this course?
Well, it's intro to Node.js.
But at the same time, it's not just gonna
be me listing documentation of Node.js and
going through different concepts.
We'll actually be building something.
So basically what we're gonna
do is we're gonna cover
all the little things that I
think are important in Node.js.
From things like modules and
NPM and all that stuff.
But also just the different types
of apps you can make in Node.js,
from CLIs to servers and interacting
with file systems and stuff like that.
So we're gonna combine that
all to create a notetaking app
that you can use from your terminal.
And then add a website component to
it where you can see those notes.
So sounds very simple but
it covers pretty much everything
you'll ever do a Node to some degree.
Pretty much everything, and Node is
built on top of these foundations and
just become more complicated.
But at the end of the day there,
probably a CLI, probably a server,
probably touching some files somewhere, or
the combination of all or some of those.
So by the end of this course,
you should have a solid foundation on what
Node.js is as far as like getting started.
What it looks like, how to use it, and
then the types of things you can do with
it, the capabilities and stuff like that.
And then, if you come from
another language like PHP,
you should be able to
see some comparables.
And they're like, this is how you
would've done that here or there.
So you'll definitely have a sense of that,
and if not, ask questions and
I'll dive in.
I'm purposely not getting
into anything advanced here,
seeing how it is an intro course.
But if someone has an appetite for
something more advanced, let me know.
I'm not afraid to dive in, even if I
don't know, we'll figure it out together.
So please ask those questions.
And then here are the resources.
So here's a repo to the actual
app that really make it,
it's the completed version.
You can check it out, it's there to
reference if you just wanna get caught up,
if you wanna compare what
you did to what's there.
Like I said, I'm just gonna be
redoing this anyway from scratch.
So what I do live here might not be
exactly one for one what´s in that repo,
cuz I just do things
differently every single time.
But it's mostly the same.
And that repo follows all the code
that's gonna be here in the notes,
so they're one for one.
But I'm super random and sporadic, so
I might do something different today as
far as the code that I write,
but it's there.
And then just some other links
to some important resources.
NPM, which we'll talk about, if you've
never heard about it, don't worry.
And then documentation website for
Node.js,
if you are into reading complicated
docs it's there for you.